One baker has already departed, 11 remain.
Another great day of baking ahead.
I've got the flour.
Wow. That's a big bag, how are you
gonna get it out of the wheel barrow?
-Self-raising.
-Oh.
[Noel] This week...
[grunting]
...it's biscuits.
With a signature challenge
that's all about precision.
It's so tough it's offering
me out for a fight.
[Noel] A mind bending technical...
Oh, it's so frustrating.
...that's an oriental mystery.
[Chris] That looks
more like a Cornish pasty.
[Noel] And a game changing
biscuit show stopper...
This is me stressed.
...that has never
been attempted before.
-Ah.
-Chin up.
-I'm going.
-[Tom] No, you're not.
[birds chirping]
I mean, the interesting thing
about the word biscuit
is that it comes from the Latin.
So bis meaning twice
and cocare, cooked twice,
cooked because the original way
in which they made them...
Have you eaten all those biscuits?
I thought I would do some eating stuff,
while you were doing some speaking stuff.
Wow. You literally take the biscuit.
It's biscuit week.
Is there not even a crumb left?
Yeah.
[Sandi] The bakers are about to face
three biscuit based challenges
over the next two days.
But who will be our second star baker
and who will be the second
to have to leave the tent?
Morning, bakers, and welcome
to your signature challenge.
Today, Prue and Paul would love
you to make 24 sandwich biscuits.
There should be two separate biscuits
neatly sandwiched together
with a flavoursome filling of your choice
that should complement
your style of biscuit.
You have two hours and 15 minutes
to make your sandwich biscuits.
-On your marks.
-Get set.
Bake.
The signature bake
this week is a devilishly
difficult challenge I think.
You have got to make 48 biscuits
to make 24 sandwich biscuits,
so they have got to think
of how they are gonna bake those
so that they are all equally sized
and equally coloured at the same time.
[Prue] One of the risks
is that the filling will be too soft
when you get it between your teeth,
out comes the lemon curd
or the buttercream.
If you combine a hard biscuit
with a soft interior,
it will go all over your lap.
[Prue] Hello, Liam.
[Liam] Hello.
Tell us about your sandwich biscuits.
It's a pecan and malt flavoured biscuit.
When I go to diner
I always get a malt
and chocolate milkshake.
It sort of reminds me
of the '50s Back to the Future.
And it's like, slightly
subtle way it creeps up.
-Yeah.
-Hello, I'm here.
[Noel] Liam began baking
just four years ago
inspired by his mum Elenore.
Where is that carrot cake?
-You said... [laughs]
-Just take the food, boy.
Sorry.
[Noel] He is sandwiching
coffee buttercream
between pecan and malt shortbread.
We used to be given malt
because it was good for us after the war.
[Paul] Which, the first World War?
Yeah, first World War.
Such a delicious flavour.
So, the whole thing is gonna be crunchy?
Kind of.
-It's cookie, or is it biscuit?
-It's biscuit.
It's biscuit. So, it will snap?
So you're looking for a soft snap?
Soft snap.
-A soft snap.
-[all laughing]
[Sandi] Whatever texture
the bakers are aiming for...
Kind of softish centre
and a bit of crunch on the outside.
...they can ruin it
when trying to introduce flavour.
Oh, 225 grams.
[Sandi] Too many wet or dry additions
to their basic dough now
can drastically alter the bite
of their baked biscuit.
[Julia] This is pistachio extract
that I couldn't find anywhere in England.
So, when I went to Russia last time,
I went to this baking shop
and I found it there,
which was quite good.
[Noel] Julia left Siberia
to live in Crawley
with her husband Matt and their dog Ned.
[Julia] Ned! Ned!
[Noel] Her pistachio and cardamom biscuits
will sandwich a vanilla and rose jelly.
Flavours give you instant memories,
don't they? They remind you of something?
When I bite into them, I think of Turkey,
the time I met my husband,
it reminds me of that.
-Aww. Was it very romantic?
-It was.
Kinda came up to me
and started chatting me up.
Then literally we walked
with each other for, like, two hours
and end up talking
about everything and nothing
and you kind of know whether
it's the right person or not,
you kind of feel it.
Do you know, that's marriage
everything and nothing.
That's exactly what marriage is like.
[Sandi] Steven is also flavouring
his biscuit dough
with a little holiday romance.
Put some amoretti in it.
I was in Rome years ago
and one of the fondest memories
was sitting having a coffee
and an amoretti biscuit,
and it was a warm Sunday morning,
so the bells were tolling
and it was incredibly romantic.
[Sandi] Steven's love of romance
even extends to the music
he listens to as he bakes.
He has lovingly adapted
a classic amoretti dough recipe
for his coffee cream filled biscuits.
What's gone into this mixture
then for the biscuits?
Semolina flour, 'cos semolina
gives a softish chewy texture.
A bit of crunch outside,
soft dough and then squashy coffee middle.
And then you should
have the classic Italian combination
of amoretti and coffee.
Let's hope they are.
[Noel] The classic flavours
in Yan's biscuit dough
were born in Enfield, North London.
[Yan] I am making peanut butter.
[Noel] But they are no less romantic.
It's based on something my wife
likes to eat after she goes to Zumba.
Usually, she has peanut butter
and banana on toast
[Noel] Yan met her wife Marian
at the local football club
and they have been together for 16 years.
Her peanut butter cookies
will have a banana cream filling
and she has another one
of her scientific tricks up her sleeve.
I'm gonna roll it in caster sugar
so when it bakes it will rise
and then when you take it out,
it will fall and have a nice crack on it.
[Flo] Puts muscles on you this.
Gets rid of your bingo wings.
There is me dough done.
I'm just put it in the fridge.
[Noel] Unless the dough
is chilled until it's firm,
when it comes to cutting and shaping,
producing 48 identical biscuits
will be impossible.
[Liam] I am happy.
[Noel] But before
they can start chilling...
[Steven] They are looking
for uniformity, don't forget.
...Steven, James...
[James] Here we go.
...and Tom...
They are gonna go
in the freezer just for two minutes.
...have given themselves
even more work to do.
[James] You need to chill them
so they hold their shape.
If you put them in a warm oven
they just seep away.
[Noel] They are hand piping
and then chilling every single biscuit.
I'm not very good at getting
everything the same size
so I have put a little template
underneath to give me a rough guide.
[Noel] Accuracy is vital in James' work
as a finance project manager.
But things get a little less precise
when he is teaching his sons
Ollie and Ethan how to bake.
His piped dough will be the basis
of his take on a Viennese whirl
crossed with his favourite pudding,
rhubarb and custard.
Following the feedback last week,
presentation's gonna be key this week.
Going in the fridge, Julia.
No problemski.
[Sandi] To perfect his presentation,
Tom is having to work
his piping bag twice as hard.
Just piping the base of the biscuits now.
They are different to the top cos
they are gonna be flat instead of fluted.
I do have quite a steady hand
because with work
I have to draw quite fine things,
but when you are in here
the nerves do affect that slightly.
[Sandi] Tom's keen architectural eye
will see him plan his bakes
in almost as much detail as his buildings.
His time-consuming design, features
two contrasting piped coffee biscuits
filled with alternating coffee
and amaretto butter cream.
[Tom] They all have to be identical.
So, if I need 48 biscuits
I am gonna make 70
just so I have got a few spare ones,
and I've already done four really messily
which I have had to scrape off and redo.
But it's fine. I have got time.
[Noel] Whilst her dough is in the fridge,
Flo has begun preparing her filling.
This is my raspberries
stewing in raspberry gin.
Get drunk on these.
[Noel] Flo's gin jam
and vanilla buttercream
will fill two shortbread biscuits
shaped like slices of bread.
[Prue] Do you think you'll have
any gin flavour at all, though,
because if you boiled it with the jam
you will have lost all the alcohol?
[Flo] I put a bit in the buttercream.
Ah. Clever girl.
Bit of booze where we know
we can taste it.
Gin always makes me a bit weepy.
-Am I gonna be crying when I eat these?
-No. I hope not.
[Noel] And Flo is not the only one
who has turned to drink.
[Chris] Adding my whiskey just
gives it the most incredible flavours.
[Noel] Chris' love of fine whiskey
is matched only
by his passion for the high seas.
Perfect job.
[Noel] His whiskey and orange filling
will sit between chocolate biscuits
made with chia seed and even more whiskey.
We know you are good with flavour
already, we have learned that.
[Chris] So, you are gonna bite in
taste the chocolate
then you are gonna get
the hit of the whiskey,
then you get this lovely
finish of a bit of orange afterwards.
It is a lot of flavours in there,
but they do all go together, don't they?
Well, it's not like in your face,
your eyes watering whiskey,
but you get this whiskey.
[Noel] I have got one question for you.
Can I have your shirt?
As long as I don't have to help you
on with your spandex again, yes.
[all laughing]
[Sandi] Sophie is also hoping
to blow the judges away
with an adults only filling.
[Sophie] I have just come back from Italy
just teaching
military personnel how to ski.
I have drank lots of limoncino,
still have some of it.
Didn't drink it all.
[Sandi] Since leaving the army
Sophie has also begun training
to be a stunt woman.
For a real lemon kick,
her curd filling will have
a large double shot of limoncino.
I have to put a lot in
to get any of the flavour.
But it does mean
that it doesn't set very well.
[Sandi] The judges
will be looking for a filling
that won't ooze out
when the biscuit is eaten.
If I add too much banana,
it becomes very wet,
but I want the flavour to come through.
[Sandi] But whilst most of the bakers
are looking to stiffen things up...
[Stacey] This the Boweswater Jelly,
I need it to set.
...Stacey is aiming
for something a little softer.
Marshmallow fluff. My kids' favourite.
I came down for breakfast
yesterday and the jar was open
and a massive scoop taken out of it.
[Noel] The morning routine
at Stacey's house
is usually too hectic
for treats at breakfast.
-Love you.
-Thanks, mum, we love you, bye.
[Noel] Her marshmallow fluff
will sit between
chewy chocolate cookies
dusted with edible glitter.
I am not quite sure
I want that metallic flavour in my mouth.
There isn't any flavour.
-Taste the bling, Paul.
-It's just to look good.
You like a bit of bling, don't you, 'cause
you made a sort of designer handbag.
I haven't any girls in my life,
so I like to,
where I can put a bit of glitter in,
but now Paul has worried me
if I've got too much glitter.
-Good luck. Thank you.
-I see.
He likes to put the fear of God
in you, doesn't he?
-What are you doing?
-Making a sandwich biscuit.
Yeah, I don't think
you have completely got the hang of it.
Bakers, you are halfway through
the time for your sandwich biscuit.
-Do you want a bite?
-Yeah. Thanks.
[muffled] It's delicious...
I know.
Just taking this out the fridge
and just rolling it out now.
These are just little Dowling rods
that you just use to support stacked
cakes, and they are just a nice guide.
[Noel] The judges will expect
every single biscuit to be identical
in thickness and shape.
[Yan] Make sure I weigh it precise.
As long as I have it round,
gravity, science will take care of it.
[Stacey] They probably won't be
completely identical, I am not a magician.
[Liam] I feel like the thickness
has to be perfect,
so I kind of want it to be like
just under a centimetre,
like, more biscuit than filling.
Cos, I love a lot of biscuit.
I am happy with that.
[Noel] To cut perfect shapes
from their biscuit dough...
I didn't want to do
anything too simplistic.
[Noel] Kate and Flo
have been improvising.
A corned beef tin.
I am quite proud of that.
[Kate] I adapted a round mould
and I put it in a bench vice
and then shaped it into a shell shape.
The shell shapes used in quite
a lot of Edwardian designing.
[Noel] Kate also satisfies her passion
for history by restoring
antique furniture.
And it's a fascination with family history
that's lead to an ambitious,
highly decorated coconut biscuit filled
with coconut rum cream and pineapple curd.
Rum, coconut and pineapple,
that's a pirates' biscuit,
-is that what you're going for?
-Yeah. It is Titanic themed.
When I researched into the recipes
on board the Titanic,
coconut sandwich biscuits
were actually served for afternoon tea,
and I had a relative onboard.
-He survived it, actually.
-Oh, right.
-He was a passenger, was he?
-Oh, my goodness.
No, he was engine room.
Engine room and he got out?
-Yeah.
-He was very lucky.
Yeah. Very lucky.
[Noel] Wow.
[Paul] Thank you, Kate.
-Good luck.
-Thank you.
[Flo] Going in.
[Yan] Right.
[Noel] The bakers now face
a multi-tasking nightmare.
[exhales]
Rotate when it
comes to, like, six minutes.
[Noel] Every single biscuit should
be baked to the same colour and texture.
Have to watch them like a hawk.
Don't want them to get too much colour.
[Noel] But with 48 to perfect
in the remaining time,
and only one oven...
I'm only gonna put one at a time.
...they will now have
to perfectly time their bakes
and prepare new batches
for the oven, simultaneously.
It should be quite tight.
Should have been in the oven,
like, 20 minutes ago.
-Nine minutes.
-Twelve.
[speaking Russian]
When it is a stressful atmosphere,
I can't count in English.
Watch them burn.
Yup.
Just need another couple of minutes.
I hate feeling like
I'm not gonna be ready for something.
[beeping]
[Sophie] At any point,
they can slightly over bake.
The reason why I am rotating them is
so that they can get, like, an even bake.
[Flo] Oh, look at them babies.
[Steven] Gonna do another two batches.
[Kate] Just a little bit longer.
[Tom] Gonna give them another two minutes.
[Sophie] Okay.
Bakers, you have got
30 minutes left, 30 minutes.
I wanted them to be a bit more golden.
I just need them to cool now.
Really quick.
Everything is so soft that any
sort of heat on it will melt it
and the sandwich will just fall apart.
They are perfect.
[Tom] Ah. They are a bit dark.
Just got to really concentrate,
I can't afford to drop any.
[exclaiming]
One, two, three, four,
five, six, seven, eight.
Five, six, eight, ten.
Eighteen, nineteen, twenty, twenty-one.
Right. Here goes.
Let the squeezing commence.
[Sophie] Starting to assemble them now.
Trying to... Quickly as I can
without mucking up.
[Steven] This is the worst bit, isn't it?
The last ten minutes, you can feel
the panic around the room.
[inhales deeply]
It's not quite even.
But I think that's quite a nice amount.
[Yan] I'm filling them
seven grams at a time.
People are sitting at home going,
"Who does that?"
[Kate] Not good, I am in a bit of a rush.
[Tom] I just thought
I was gonna have more time than this.
[Flo] Should have put more gin in.
-I just want to taste a bit.
-[Chris] Oh, yeah, go for it.
You are always licking my chocolate.
[gasps]
-[Chris] It's sex, isn't it?
-Orange.
-And sex?
-Oh, well done.
I wasn't getting sex,
but I was looking at you, Chris,
erm, maybe for that filling
I would be on the turn for you.
-Good Lord.
-You never know.
[Julia] Fiddly.
I feel as if, I should have
used all the time up.
The problem with having a bit of time
to spare, you probably feel a bit nervous.
[Flo] I feel as if I should have
gone over them a bit more.
Here we go, steady hand, steady hand.
[James] Ooh.
[Sandi] That James, is a thing of beauty.
[Noel] Paul is a little
bit scared of the glitter.
I think you should try and embrace it.
Do you know what I mean?
[Noel] You should be making
them up like David Bowie.
Oh, go on, jelly.
[Tom] Hands are shaking so much.
Three, six, nine, twelve.
19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24.
-24.
-You've got one minute.
One minute left.
Do they have to be on the plate?
I have just run out of time.
I'm not gonna have time to ice them all.
-Do you want a hand?
-Yes, please, please, please.
[Steven] I will be as careful as I can.
It's okay if they fall apart,
they fall apart.
[Tom] My hands are shaking so much.
[Steven] Don't worry.
Two, four, six, eight, ten, 11.
Five, six, seven, eight.
Keeps going lopsided.
You are gonna do it,
you are gonna do it, it's fine.
Bakers, you have got ten seconds.
That's two.
[Steven] Such a mess.
Time up, I'm afraid, bakers.
Please put your sandwich biscuits
at the end of your benches.
Thank you, guys.
Tom, don't touch.
-Just straightening them up.
-No touching.
Wanna try mine?
They are so good. That is sick.
That's really nice.
[Sandi] It's judgment time
for the signature sandwich biscuits.
-Hi, Liam.
-Hello.
-All uniform.
-Nice.
All the same colour and there is 24.
Tick, tick, tick.
-So far.
-Right, let's have a look.
[Prue] Gosh. They are a bit squishy.
[Sandi] Got it. Totally got it.
I will just stand here
and catch it, Paul Hollywood's drippings.
That's actually what's happening here.
But I think, from a flavour point of view,
they are very interesting.
-You get a malt kick.
-Yes.
-Coffee kick.
-Get in.
It's really good. But this is a meal.
-I think they are too chunky.
-Yeah.
See me, that's what it says
on the bottom of your work.
[all laughing]
You have made 24
almost identical biscuits.
Very delicious.
I'm getting vanilla, certainly
getting rhubarb, which is lovely.
I didn't get the custard, but it's vanilla
so it gives you that sensation
of rhubarb and custard,
but quality of the biscuit is fantastic.
[exhales]
A very rich bitter chocolate.
The whiskey is, wow,
it's coming through at the end.
Beautiful, isn't it?
[Prue] Do you know, I think it's too much.
It's got the concentration
of a chocolate truffle.
Ah, okay.
[Prue] They do look
absolutely perfectly even.
[crunching]
Oh, sorry about that. A bit oozy.
No denying the banana and peanut.
If the cream filling would have set,
it would have been a fantastic biscuit.
It does look very intriguing.
Filling looks a little squashy.
[Paul] Your biscuit is quite hard.
I think you have worked that too much.
-You think so?
-Yep.
There is no gin flavour.
But I think the flavour is wonderful
especially the raspberry jam.
I love that chewy middle,
and it is still quite crisp outside.
The only issue is the slight
irregular sizes,
but the flavours and the texture
of the almond and the coffee together,
and the slight chewiness
in the bite, perfect.
Thank you.
[Paul] The icing
is a little bit dodgy, isn't it?
Very dodgy.
It's so tough,
it's offering me out for a fight.
[Prue] It is too tough.
A story of two halves.
The pineapple's there,
delicious flavour, yum.
-I think they look amazing.
-Thank you.
You have got consistency,
I think they look very neatly filled.
Obviously, a little bit concerned
about that amount of glitter.
-Taste great.
-Thank you.
Crispy on the outside,
soft and cookie-like on the inside,
and the marshmallow has set beautifully
so when you bite in, it doesn't pour out.
And in fact, with fluff like that
which is pure sugar,
it's clever not to have
the biscuit too sweet.
As a sandwich biscuit,
you have ticked all the boxes. Well done.
Thank you.
They are dancing biscuits.
Aren't they? Look at them.
Boi-ing, boi-ing.
That's great that.
They are a little bit scruffy.
Very different, but because
everything's a bit strong, it's too much.
[Paul] You have this mix
of rosewater and cardamom,
which isn't particularly pleasant.
But very daring of you to do it, though.
[Sandi] And the most fun
we have had so far.
Yeah, I'm just gonna do
that one more time. Yeah.
-That's just lovely.
-[Paul] That's quite incredible.
You were asked for 24
absolutely identical biscuits
and I think you might have hit it.
They look incredible.
Sharp, nice clean lines,
distinction between the two sides.
A bit of drippage.
That's delicious.
Thank you.
[Paul] Can't really taste the limoncino,
you just get a beautiful citrus flavour.
[Prue] Beautifully cooked, very tart.
What's not to like? It's wonderful.
Thank you. Thank you so much.
I like the look of them. I think
the bake's good, I think the size is good.
[Prue] Tell us about the filling?
The chocolate one is just
a chocolate ganache,
the central one is coffee and amaretto.
The cream is very rich in chocolate.
The amaretto flavour is delicious.
The biscuit dough is a triumph.
[Tom] Thank you.
Never mind about running out of time.
-I did it, there it was 24.
-Bravo.
Finish on the word triumph, Tom,
and don't... Stop speaking,
stop speaking. Say triumph.
[Tom] I feel good.
Yes.
I don't want to get too excited.
But that has given me a boost
that I needed.
I would have liked it
if Paul got glitter all over his face.
Okay, brilliant, I can breathe.
[Julie] I am trying to use
different flavours
in everything I am making.
And I keep getting it wrong.
Last week, it was good bake,
improve on flavours.
This week, good flavours,
just texture was wrong.
Can I not just marry
the two and it will be fine?
[Sandi] The bakers could practice
for their signature challenge,
but now they will have no idea
what biscuit they will
be asked to bake next.
Time for your technical challenge,
which has been set for you by Paul.
Any advice, Paul?
Don't fold under the pressure.
Well, that covers
the whole of this, right.
Off you two, pop.
Off we pop.
Right, Paul would like you to make
12 fortune cookies.
Six almond cookies
and six orange patterned cookies.
Each cookie must contain a fortune inside.
No idea how that works,
but I'm sure you have got the mad skills.
You have got two hours
to complete this challenge.
On your marks.
-Get set, bake.
-Bake.
[Julia] Oh, my God.
[Sandi] The bakers all have identical
ingredients and the same basic recipe.
If we have a Chinese takeaway
we often get fortune cookies,
so I have got a good sense
of how to shape them.
I have seen them on TV
and stuff and films and that.
Funnily enough, I nearly made
fortune cookies a while back
and I thought, nah, it's too much
of a faff and I didn't do it.
Argh.
Paul, fortune cookies.
[Paul] On paper,
you think that's very easy,
but actually this is a very
difficult technical challenge.
You have an almond flavour
and you have an orange flavour.
They have a little pattern.
Now this is all about timing.
You can't put all of them
into the oven at the same time.
Two or three at a time
and possibly no more than that
and it must just brown on the outside
and when they come out,
you only have a very short period of time
to create that fortune cookie shape
before they set.
So, it's all speed and dexterity?
But the killer thing is snap.
[Prue] Yeah, it breaks.
It says, "You will be working
with a man with blue eyes."
There you go, you see.
Or that means I keep
my job till tomorrow, at least.
Good.
The first instruction
is to write 12 fortunes.
What are you supposed to write?
"Look after your feet
and the rest will follow."
Oh, I like that.
"Speak your mind for it is..."
"Stupid."
Do them as I go along,
cos I think of a funny one.
-Can I read one?
-In the beginning-- of course.
They are all pretty much the same.
[Noel] "Make it count."
-"Keep on smiling."
-Yes.
[Noel] I like these,
they are quite punchy.
Make it count,
you have gone for make it count again.
Because you should really make it count.
You should really make it count...
It says mix the egg whites, oil and water.
Argh.
I shouldn't look at other people.
Just do what I am doing.
[Julia] They need to be light,
but they don't need much air.
People are using mixers.
I am guessing this will be
like a twill-like consistency.
So spreadable, but not too runny.
[Chris] Looks a little lack lustre.
And then divide the batter into two.
"Form two circles of almond batter."
How big is a fortune cookie, though?
No idea.
Probably a teaspoon of mixture
and just smooth it around? But...
[Yan] Just try it with one.
I know they are supposed to be thin.
Absolutely no idea
how long to put these in for.
I am very nervous at the moment.
[Flo] They are going in.
[James] I am gonna start
with three minutes.
That seems a lucky
Chinese number, I guess.
[Yan] I am gonna
go for lucky five minutes.
I'm gonna sit here and monitor this.
This is lightly golden. Okay.
I thought they would be done like that,
but actually they are quite slow to cook.
It's quite a low oven temperature.
[James] Take the first one out.
[Flo] Going in.
I think they are too thick.
Once baked, place a fortune
in the centre and seal.
[James] Er, I wish I had asbestos fingers.
-Whoo.
-Super hard.
I think I have to work quite quick.
[Liam] I don't know
what they are meant to look like.
[Stacey] That folds like that.
"And seal using the rim of a glass."
[Tom] Put it over a glass and shape?
[laughs]
[Noel laughs]
-Anyway...
-It's as simple as that.
That's it, yeah.
[Flo sighs]
[Flo] There's your glass.
So, I'm gonna put a fortune in,
fold them in half
and then I'm just squidging it at the edge
to give it that line underneath.
And they are not sticking.
What is that for?
[James] Cos they will set up quite hard
and put it in there,
so they don't fold out too much.
[Noel] It's like origami, isn't it?
[Sophie] Yeah.
-I love how you don't panic.
-Is everyone else panicking?
-Can you not feel it?
-No, not really.
That's why I like being at the back.
-Yeah, that's panic happening.
-Okay.
[Julie] I didn't expect them
to get hard as fast as they do.
[Kate] You have got to be
really, really quick.
They just crack as you've just seen.
[exhaling]
[Yan] They look like
real cookies and everything.
[Stacey] This is not right.
I'm trying to create a shape
and I just can't get a shape.
Oh, you're cracking on me.
What the hell is this?
[exhales heavily]
[Chris] That looks more
like a Cornish pasty.
That's not a fortune cookie
shape in the slightest.
There is my two. I just can't do them.
[Yan] I have only made two.
-Got ten to go?
-I can't give up now.
Okay. Put some more in.
[Yan] Putting it in.
[Stacey] Come on, you babies.
Give me some bread,
give me some pastry,
give me something wholesome.
Fortune cookies.
On the almond ones,
I need to melt some chocolate
and chop up some hazelnuts.
[Sandi] Hey, lovely. And...
[Flo] That's a disaster.
-Oh, why?
-Yeah. That is my fortune cookie.
Give that a really good bash
that will make you feel better.
-I know
-That's it.
[grunting]
Okay, now you are laughing.
[Stacey] Mine aren't going brown.
[Chris] That's about there.
Okay, gonna get cold very, very quickly.
So, it says press to seal,
but then it says use the rim of a glass?
What if it goes like that then like that?
They are just so rubbery.
Do you want to put
this apron on and have a go?
No.
[Yan] Oh, man, I am so doing
these for the next dinner party.
[groaning] So frustrating.
[Liam] They are poor.
Tell you what, lets read one of these,
see if you can get any advice
from your own advice?
You dance great.
-Has that helped you in any way?
-[laughter]
Bakers, you have one hour left.
I'm gonna flavour the orange one now.
So, it's got orange essence
and orange colouring in as well.
[Kate] I don't like
using too much food dye,
it tastes all synthetic and horrible.
[Steven] Orange circle.
[Chris] It looks more like a fried egg
and the yolks split.
Dot, dot, dot.
[Chris] Oh, yeah, cos this works.
[Tom] "Create a pattern
from the dots using a cocktail stick."
I'm dragging it into the middle.
The idea is to make it look like segments.
I'm just gonna put these in.
No, it's a disgrace.
Bakers, you have got half an hour left.
[Liam] They are so bad.
This is the last batch going in.
[Kate] The orange
could be a little bit stronger.
I did it. Did it.
That's it. Ish... ish.
So, how the hell did I do it?
Have I got time?
Er... "Dip almond cookies
in melted chocolate
and coat with chopped toasted hazelnuts."
That's the last batch coming out.
Bakers, you have got 15 minutes left.
Oh, my God,
I've only managed to make five.
And this will be it.
I'm gonna see if I can do another two.
Doing that. These aren't
quite cooked these ones.
[Yan] One, two, three, four, five... Yeah.
[James] How would I...
I am not good at technical at all, no.
[Stacey] All I have to do now
is the dipping and the nutting.
Bakers, that's the end
of your technical challenge.
Well, I'm gonna get annihilated here.
Chin up.
-I'm going.
-[Tom] No, you are not.
Please bring your fortune cookies up
and place them behind your photos.
[Noel] Paul and Prue are expecting 12
perfectly shaped crisp fortune cookies.
And they won't know whose is whose.
Come on.
[Paul] Okay.
They have got a shape to them.
[Prue] And they are actually quite even.
That cracked beautifully.
It says, "Keep smiling."
I can taste the almond.
[Prue] And I can taste the orange.
[Paul] Moving on,
they are pretty even, there is a shape,
however, these are a little bit rubbery.
No crack,
that one is absolutely delicious.
[Paul] They are just slightly underdone,
Moving on, there is not enough
colouring in there at all.
[cracking]
It cracks well.
[crunching]
[Prue] Could break your teeth on them,
they are a bit thick.
I don't think they ever
got to the oven, did they?
[both] Mmm.
Raw batter is not much fun.
[Paul] Okay, moving on, all look the same.
Orange needs to be a stronger colour.
[Prue] That really cracked nicely.
[Paul] Nice orange flavour,
just needed more colour in there.
Okay, they are quite raw,
the almond ones have lost their shape
and you can unfold them.
They don't really snap,
just not baked enough.
[Prue] These look pretty good.
[Paul] The orange one
has got a stronger colour, which I like.
Nice break, got a nice flavour.
[Prue] That is rather a good one.
These look good. Do you know,
I think they are very beautiful
That is a very good little heart.
-[cracking]
-[Paul] Ah.
It has cracked.
It is a little bit rubbery.
Are we going to say this?
"Today, you will mostly poo candyfloss."
[all laughing]
Well, they have followed that up with,
"You will get bored of writing fortunes."
[laughter]
-Nice orange flavour as well.
-Yeah.
[Prue sighs]
This is not a very happy picture.
I don't think they were quite ready.
They haven't managed to seal it up,
before they bend it.
Oh, beautiful crack, but they aren't
the right shape, are they?
[Paul] Right, moving on to
whatever these are.
"I have made a right mess of this."
[all laughing]
I think he just invented that.
They're raw.
[Paul] Although, I am getting
the almond flavour in there.
Moving on, the orange ones
look quite pretty,
it has got a bit of cylindrical shape
to it before it gets bent.
Start with this, oh, broke very well.
-Very good.
-The almond is coming through nicely,
it is crispy.
Nice flavour in them,
-they are nice.
-[Prue] Very good.
[Sandi] Prue and Paul will now rank
the fortune cookies
from the worst to the best.
In the 11th place is this one.
Whose is this?
Me. I had a little bit of a struggle.
Tenth place, we have this one.
Oh, Flo, they are the wrong shape,
aren't they?
Ninth spot is this one.
It's me.
-They are raw.
-Yeah.
I just couldn't get my head
around the whole shape.
[Noel] Kate is eighth, Liam is seventh,
Steven is sixth,
Tom fifth and Julia is fourth.
In 3rd spot is this one.
Nice shape, nice pattern as well.
Nice snap, well done.
Thank you.
This is excellent, who is number two?
Sophie, they look absolutely beautiful.
In first place, obviously is this one.
Nice colour, nice shape,
you ticked all the boxes.
[all applauding]
Before I left, my brother said,
"Come back number one in technical
or don't come back at all."
That's what he said.
[Chris] Prue and Paul's comments
were probably quite fair,
however, when they spat them out,
well, that did hurt a little.
[Flo] Paul read out,
"I've made a right mess of this."
He got that right anyway.
I also wrote,
"I am never baking these again."
Which is true, that will come true.
[bleating]
[Sandi] One final biscuit
challenge remains.
Morning, bakers.
Welcome to your showstopper challenge.
Okay, I think, this is gonna
be one of my absolute favourites.
We are so excited.
This is some Willy Wonka stuff right now.
Today, you are gonna
be making biscuit board games.
It needs to be at least
40 centimetres in diameter,
it needs to have at least eight elements.
The biscuits can be
any flavour or any type,
but the main thing is,
you must be able to play your board game
and then eat your board game.
[Sandi] Yeah, preferably in that order.
It's not gonna work the other way around.
You have got three and a half hours.
On your marks...
-Get set.
-Bake.
[Noel] Creating a functioning board game
from biscuits is the ultimate test
of the baker's ability to create
stunning biscuits
on a grand scale for their boards,
whilst also delivering exquisitely
detailed biscuit playing pieces.
[Paul] You have got to be a designer,
you have got to be very artistic.
To really highly decorate
the biscuits and the players.
[Prue] Board games
are all about the detail.
So, it's got to be very neat,
the colours must be sharp-edged,
and the writing must be legible.
[Paul] You could create the most amazing
board game in the world,
but actually, it's got to taste good.
Time today is so tight,
there is no room for error.
I've got to get three doughs done
in about half an hour,
otherwise the game won't be finished.
[Liam] Hopefully, I can get everything
baked in the first two hours.
I have got like an hour
to decorate, which will be chill.
[Noel] Every dough will need
to result in a biscuit
that is robust enough to hold
its shape when it's played with...
In practice, it hasn't gone well.
The biscuits have crumbled a lot.
...whilst still delivering
a texture that's a pleasure to eat.
[Sophie] When I rehearsed this,
I demolished about a quarter
of the checkerboard in about 30 minutes,
so I thought it tasted okay.
[Sandi] Sophie is making a simple
snakes and ladders board,
but it requires 50 individual
chocolate biscuits
and another 50 flavoured
with lemon and bergamot.
So, have you done this before?
Sort of...
[Sandi] Sort of, what does that mean?
[Prue] A few times.
I have not done beginning to end,
timed or anything like that.
And your snakes and ladders,
how are you going to show us them?
They are all going to be royal icing
flooded, so pipe the outline
and then flood it with royal icing.
I like the idea of the flavours,
I think the lemon and chocolate
and bergamot as well
is gonna give it a nice little kick.
You seem to be under control.
That's because I have no idea
what my timing should be.
[all laughing]
Ignorance is bliss.
[Noel] When it comes to
snakes and ladders,
Sophie won't be playing alone.
[Tom] I am doing "the architect's take",
it's drains and ladders.
The board itself is gonna
be made to look like a house.
[Noel] Tom will need to find time to cover
a cinnamon and nutmeg board in fondant,
spray paint it and pipe numbers,
ladders and drainpipes
and make chocolate
and peppermint playing pieces.
Did you design it on a drawing board?
I did.
It's a bit childlike.
[Noel] Shall we call it naive?
-Just naive.
-Yes, let's call it naive.
-Do you think you have nailed your timing?
-Not at all.
You are just a free spirit.
Time. Who needs it?
Who needs it? What is time?
[Noel] Who needs those kinds
of constructs?
If Paul and Prue say,
"You ran out of time",
say, "What does time mean?"
[Sandi] For James,
this showstopper challenge
is a chance to go back in time.
The bake is based on
an old board game called Coppit.
My wife got the board game
when she was four,
but it's been in the family ever since.
So, it's one that's in our games
cupboard that comes out regularly.
[Sandi] James is making a board
from spiced orange,
chocolate and ginger shortbread.
And he will colour more spiced
orange dough for his playing pieces.
[James] In the winter, we play
a board game on a Saturday night
and it's always Coppit
that the kids want to get out.
So it gets quite competitive, especially
with the two boys playing it as well.
[Noel] Stacey's biscuit board game
also has a strong family connection,
but it's never been played before.
[Stacey] I have made up a game
called "Get To School."
Because you know
there is all the challenges
of getting them to school
and all the things they have got to do
and all the things they forget,
and you are always shouting at them.
Only a mum would come up with this game.
[Noel] Players have to move across
the fondant covered chocolate board
to try and win a good boy star biscuit
featuring Stacey's son's
favourite flavours.
I am doing a plain chocolate biscuit
cos my kids love that,
and then I am doing breakfast based
vanilla and strawberry.
I am using freeze-dried strawberries.
The thing about freeze-dried
strawberries is that they are strong.
I really want to make sure you can taste
the strawberry and I think you can.
[Sandi] While Stacey has gone
with classic every day flavours,
Kate's risking everything
on an obscure ingredient
she has found in one of her history books.
These are grains of paradise,
and they are like an ancient spice.
It's been like long forgotten.
It tastes kind of like gin.
[Sandi] Grains of paradise
will flavour Kate's board
and orange and cardamom
playing pieces will complete her game
inspired by another period
of ancient history, the 1990s.
This is my Jumanji board game.
It's like one of my favourite films
from when I was small
and a lot of animals
come out of the board game.
I admire the fact that you are using
something slightly different,
grains of paradise.
Also, the orange and cardamom,
two fascinating flavours
and if it works together with the board,
it's about getting the time to decorate.
He was fussing about the icing
on your signature biscuits,
so just bear it in mind.
[Sandi] Flo is hoping her choice of game
can kick start her recovery
in biscuit week.
[Flo] It's a take on Operation.
I don't do nothing easy,
so I will have a go with that one.
[Sandi] Flo's almond biscuit patient
will lie on a vanilla biscuit
operating table
and everything will be covered
in coloured fondant
she has chosen to make herself.
I've got to put borders around it in red
and then the man's like a flesh colour,
and I am hoping I've got time
to put a pair of shorts on him.
I'm going for a lot, aren't I?
[all laughing]
It sounds really complicated.
-Bring it on.
[Sandi] Getting the games board
baked early is crucial.
I need to get a crack on.
I wanna get my middle triangle bits done.
[Sandi] Not only will these giant biscuits
need to cool completely
before they can be iced.
[Tom] Mine is about decorating
and I can't do that
if I don't have a board to work on.
[Sandi] The bakers will also need
to quickly free up their ovens
for all the other biscuit components
that will ensure their games are playable.
[Flo] Just have to go like the clappers
when it comes out.
[Noel] And whilst Sophie's simple
snakes and ladders board
is proving complicated...
[Sophie] I need to get this
bit as neat as I can.
[Noel] Julia's simple board...
[Julia] I think, yes...
[Noel] ...is for a game that has
a pretty straight forward explanation.
My game is a British Baking Game.
[Noel] Julia's ginger and lime board
will have a path of chocolate
and orange liqueur stepping stones.
[Julia] I am making my own game,
I was just hoping to be original
and show that I can be creative.
[Noel] But Julia's creation
may not be that original.
[Yan] My board game's
called Adventures in Bakeland.
[Noel] Yan's lemon and matcha tea orange
and cardamom biscuit squares
will lead the winning player
to a biscuit Sandi and Noel.
Because it's gonna be a checkerboard,
they have spread ever so slightly,
so I'm gonna put them little spaced apart,
bake them and then they come together.
Bakers, you are half-way through the time
for your biscuit board game.
[Sophie] My God.
How long you been standing there?
Slightly too long.
I hate that, thanks.
[humming]
[Noel] Even with the largest
items in the oven,
this showstopper is about
to get much harder.
I am making the good boy stars,
they are very soft today,
they are not usually as soft as this.
[Noel] There are now hundreds
of intricate and fragile biscuit
playing pieces to complete.
[Liam] Now, I need to power up.
-[Yan] That's Sandi and Noel.
-I have nailed him.
[Flo chuckles]
When I make my little hats,
I put about ten grams of biscuit
into the bottom and cook them that way up.
But I have to oil them well
otherwise they won't come out.
[Sandi] Liam doesn't have just one set
of playing pieces to make, he has three.
[Liam] I have designed
a multi-functional board game,
so if you want to play noughts and crosses
you can play that,
if you want to play Snakes and Ladders,
you can play that.
You can play Draughts, you can play that.
And how many pieces,
are you bringing to this?
Oh, I've got loads. [laughs]
[Sandi] Liam's classroom games compendium,
will feature a chocolate orange shortbread
blackboard and over
30 individual playing pieces,
full of flavours straight
from his family's recipe book.
[Liam] Because my nan always believed in
remedies and stuff,
whenever I was ill, I would always
have lemon and ginger and honey.
That's my biscuit.
To make us feel better?
-Just a little bit.
-Right, okay.
-After my fortune cookies.
-[laughter]
[Noel] Whilst he is only
making one game...
Measuring out all the pieces
that are gonna sit on top of the map.
[Noel] ...Chris' individual biscuits
will have to represent
the whole of Great Britain.
But I apologise to Cornwall now,
I think I have chopped them off.
[Noel] Chris' rum and ginger pieces
will sit on an orange
and cardamom biscuit board
to create a game
that fuels his nautical ambitions.
[Chris] I am making
a Great British Sail Off.
I am gonna have a seal,
a dolphin, I will put a few landmarks on,
Stonehenge, Big Ben, etcetera.
Instead of dice,
I have gone for a compass.
You spin it, whatever number
determines how far you go.
It is quite a big board game
and you are trying to create
a lot of different shapes.
Have you made this before?
Not in three and a half hours.
I need nearer six.
So as long as the judges
don't keep me talking too long,
I might just do it.
[Prue] Okay, thank you.
[Sandi] So, one more question...
No kidding. Okay.
[Sandi] Steven's showstopper
will see him attempt to make more
playing pieces than anyone else.
[Steven] I made it the other day
and just as I was doing it,
I thought this is insane,
what have you done to yourself,
and, of course, it's too late by then.
[Sandi] He has planned an entire
coffee gingerbread chess set,
complete with a Union Jack coloured
spiced orange biscuit board.
[Steven] Thirty-two chess pieces,
3D biscuits.
3D biscuits?
3D biscuits and each one
will have a different fondant top.
How many pieces
are you having to make then?
One hundred individual pieces.
That's a lot of work.
[Sandi] Ninety minutes remaining.
Perfect.
I just want to check that I have done
all the pieces that I need to do.
Alarm clock, toothbrush, blazer, school.
I am gonna check it every five minutes
cos some of the pieces
are smaller than the others.
[Sophie] I'm like massively
behind timings right now.
[Flo] I'm making fondant, very sticky job.
Oh, it just takes icing sugar
upon icing sugar to get it right.
[Tom] I'm not making my own fondant.
I figured I would rather finish
and use shop bought.
These are little individual cupcakes
to go on the pawns.
This is the slow, fiddly bit.
I have got a lot to do.
So, I am starting
my black chalkboard royal icing.
It's getting there.
Oh, it's a terrible job this. I hate it.
[Stacey] A couple of them
are slightly overbaked.
[Chris] This is gonna be the compass.
Twelve, fourteen...
[Sophie] Biscuits still cooking.
[James] Because it's so crumbly
when I moved it, crackage.
Not as bad as my last one
which literally just all shattered.
[Flo groans]
[Flo] Me base broke. It's all cracked.
[Sophie] Aww. Is she okay?
There is fondant going over it.
Might be a nightmare,
but I will have a go.
[sighs]
Bakers, you have got one hour left.
[Yan] So, I'm just gonna start icing.
[Chris] Do some fondant
to make a sea effect.
[Stacey] Thought I would do this first,
so at least I have got a decent board.
I've got two white sides
and two blue sides.
There is a bit of a gap, I can fix it.
Maybe I just leave it rustic.
How does a Union Jack work?
Right. White, white, white.
[Tom] So, I'm just setting up
these guides so when I spray my roof,
the red doesn't bleed
all over the rest of the board.
[Kate] This is gonna be the main part
of my board,
just trying to get a variation in colour.
[James] This just takes time,
though, it takes a lot of filling in.
[exhales heavily]
[Tom] I feel really nervous about this.
[Liam] Shaking so much.
[Chris] Just royal icing
the black sections.
[Steven] This is hot granulated sugar,
so it just holds them in place.
Argh.
I don't know my own strength sometimes.
Let's see if they come out.
As long as you play it just there,
we are good.
That's it, can't move it
around the board at all.
Can't move it, yeah.
Bakers, you have half an hour left.
I know it doesn't look very much,
they are gonna get spray gunned.
Doing the monkeys.
It needs to be really precise.
But I haven't got time.
[Liam] Just something innocent
about them not being decorated.
Argh. I just literally sprayed
that all over the place.
[Tom groaning]
I need to be so much
further ahead than this.
I am quite far behind.
So, I need to glue them together
and then start piping.
[Tom] My game is supposed
to be a little bit playful,
so if it's not really neat
then it's okay.
That's my story anyway
and I'm sticking to it.
Bakers, you only have five minutes left.
This is me stressed.
[Tom] Argh. I've got so much to do.
I have still got to do
my drainpipes and everything.
Like a duck, graceful, underneath...
[Liam] This is probably the hardest thing
I have ever done in my life,
this challenge.
I don't know if I will finish on time.
[Flo] Oh, my God, this is terrible.
[Yan] It is not the showstopper.
I am running out of time.
Anything I can help with?
It depends, I don't know.
What are your piping skills like?
-I don't know.
-They are powerful.
-Okay.
-I am known as the powerful piper.
[Chris] I had to rush
to get it done in time.
One minute.
[Liam] Six, one, two, five...
Okay, bakers, your time is up.
[groans]
God. I am so unhappy with that,
but whatever. [gasps] Oh!
It looks like a bomb's just hit it.
[Sandi] It's judgment time
for the bakers' showstoppers.
Sophie, please bring up
your biscuit board game.
Well, I must say
it's very beautifully neat.
You haven't had to ice the whole thing.
[Paul] The blocks all look equal.
That is very good.
[Prue] Beautiful dice.
[Paul] I think we need to try
some of this.
I love the lemon flavour, bergamot.
-[Prue] Afterwards you get it.
-There is a little bit right at the end.
-[Sophie] Okay. Yeah.
-But it works.
It's beautiful, crispy snap.
Snakes and Ladders is a classic game
and I think you have done
a very, very good job.
That was a lot better than I expected.
Well done.
I love the colours, bright as anything.
Edges are terrific. It's very neat.
The board is a mixed spice.
Hmm. Very spicy and Christmassy.
[Paul] And soft. As a biscuit,
that is too soft for me.
But the overall design is fantastic,
very much an architect's piece of work.
The overall game
is a little disappointing.
Yeah.
[Paul] The biscuits are delicious.
[Prue] Aren't they?
There is not much ginger coming through,
but there is lots of lime.
Texture, it's very, very good as well.
You make your way around
the board towards Noel and Sandi.
[laughter]
[Paul] It's a shame
all this has broken off
cos what you have essentially done
is made a lot of different biscuits
and piped different numbers on them.
The lemony one is lovely.
The biscuit's been overworked slightly.
It's quite rubbery. The matcha
comes through, that's pretty much it.
James, I love the colours
I mean they are my kind of colours,
-they are bang in your face.
-Exactly.
[Prue] I really love that.
Cones have sort of worked.
Every time I move it,
a little bit more falls off.
-Is that part of the game?
-It has to be a quick game.
[Prue] I must say
the texture is nice to eat.
[Paul] That chocolate is delicious,
melts in the mouth,
the flavour's very good.
The actual board game, the way
you have set it up, is a nice idea.
Thank you.
Flo, please bring up
your biscuit board game.
-Do I have to?
-Yes.
That's Mr. Neverwell.
I'm not surprised.
[all laughing]
So, you picked these up and you try
and pick up one of these things here?
[Prue] Very good.
It certainly looks striking.
But it is a bit messy, isn't it?
-And you made your fondant, didn't you?
-Yeah.
-And you didn't need to.
-No.
[Flo] The man's almond,
the other one is vanilla.
-There is not a lot of difference between.
-Not a lot of difference between the two.
They are both great biscuits,
they are crumbly, they break easily,
there is no chew to it at all.
Simplistic, but actually it does the job.
Well done, Flo.
He's getting bin bagged. After today.
You spin the compass and depending
on which number it lands on
is how many spaces you move.
That works quite well, doesn't it?
It's a bit rough and ready.
Its colourful which is a good thing.
[Prue] And the little boats
are quite neat.
The landmark is rum and ginger.
That's Scotland leaving England.
[all laughing]
You do want your own teeth,
I must tell you.
Both the biscuits are burnt.
The flavours are okay.
I think the most impressive
thing is your compass.
No one has ever said that to me before.
Not your strong point then.
[Paul] I think
it does look a little bit messy.
[Kate] I just didn't have time
to like decorate it
in the way that I wanted to.
I think it looks a little
more like a jungle swamp.
That's the lemon and paradise one.
I am not getting the grains of paradise.
[Prue] No, I can't taste them.
It's a little bit solid.
I don't think eating that is
going to be a huge pleasure.
[Paul] It looks a bit unfinished because
once the board was done
you just spent the rest of the time
cutting out these shapes.
You could have decorated
them a little bit more.
Fantastic flavour.
The lemon honey and ginger is delicious.
To get the honey, the lemon and ginger
all together is quite tricky to do.
The board game is a chocolate
orange and cinnamon.
And it's got chocolate chips in it.
Mmm-hmm.
I have to say I think
it's absolutely delicious.
It's just crumbly and melting and yum.
I would like to see more decoration,
but the biscuits are the star of the show.
-Which game do you want to play?
-Noughts and crosses.
Okay, you be the noughts.
Okay, cool.
-You could have won?
-[Liam] I know.
-[Sandi] Paul.
-I would never do that.
[all laughing]
Well done.
I will be getting drunk tonight.
Steven, would you like to bring
your biscuit board game up?
[Sandi] Yeah, I think I'm gonna help.
This is a bit scary.
Okay.
That is exceptional.
Thank you.
[Paul] The work
that you have got on the top
is sublime, it is very delicate.
[Prue] It's a little masterpiece.
You have a great bake,
it's a great tasting gingerbread.
[Prue] It's very good because the fondant
isn't too thick.
Hmm.
[Paul] The orange flavour is delicious.
It's very well-designed
and it's as neat as a pin.
[Paul] Very, very clever,
well done, Steven.
[Steven] Thank you.
[Tom] Well done.
Oh, mate.
[Sandi] Stacey, please bring up
your biscuit board game.
The board game is a made-up
game called Get to School.
There are three players,
I've got three boys.
It is so neat and so beautifully done.
The piping is good and the sweet,
little school blazer is just exquisite.
[Stacey] That's vanilla and strawberry.
-Slightly chewy, quite rubbery.
-Yeah.
-Sorry.
-Erm, I'm not getting much flavour.
From an eating point of view,
that's much more icing
than you need on that bit of biscuit.
The chocolate is dry as a bone.
The texture is all wrong,
it just crumbles into nothing.
[Prue] It's a beautifully conceived game,
but the flavour and the texture
is not so wonderful.
Do you not think we look like four people
who couldn't agree
what game they wanted to play?
[all chuckles]
So, we cut them all into bits.
[Sandi] I loved this challenge,
an incredible array
of imagination on display.
Absolutely, and some terrific skill, too.
[Paul] Steven's was exquisite.
And then Tom's, I mean,
that could have come out of a magazine.
[Paul] It's the same
when you look at Sophie's
and the taste
of those biscuits were divine.
[Sandi] Chris came into
the showstopper in trouble.
His problem was that
he just never got near the end.
[Paul] Stacey's although, it looked great,
the biscuits were bone dry.
You know Kate struggled as well.
She didn't finish her bake.
[Prue] She is too ambitious.
Flo didn't do brilliantly today,
and she was not pleased with herself.
So, it's not as clean cut as you think
when you look down at the bottom.
It has got to be more
of a conversation about who is going.
[Prue] But I think we will agree
on who is star baker.
I think so.
-That's my head.
-I know.
I'm short enough.
Well, bakers, thank you
for some wonderful board games.
I have got the lovely job
of announcing star baker.
The star baker this week
produced some exquisite detail
in the showstopper.
The star baker is Steven.
So of course, that means
I have the difficult job
of announcing
who is going to be leaving us.
The baker leaving the tent is...
Chris.
Ah.
What a surprise.
Come on, let's have a hug, come on.
[Chris] I am disappointed I never got
to make any breads,
any pastries, the things
that fit my style of baking.
I am just so honoured
and privileged to have got in that tent.
Everything fell to pieces for him,
it's a real shame, you know,
because he has got some fantastic ideas.
All right, mate, well done.
[Sandi] Are you happy to get through?
[Liam] Just a little bit.
Gulp. [laughs]
Dodged a bullet there
but, yeah, happy with that.
[indistinct chatter]
I am not disappointed I didn't get
star baker, maybe another week.
-The double.
-You're going for a double, he is greedy.
I mean, he has done the double.
[Steven] I don't think
I will ever get used to this feeling,
it's alien to me.
I have bullied myself so much in my life
that finally I am getting praise,
I don't know what to do with it.
[Flo] This week,
I let myself down terrible.
I expected to go home.
Come here.
You are not getting rid of me
that easy, are you?
[theme music playing]